---
Aliases: [Sixth-Generation Mobile, 6G Mobile, 6G Mobile Network]
Tags: System
Year-Invention: 
Year-Global-Adoption: 
Source-Wikipedia:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/6G
Source-Wikidata:
---

Depends:[[5G]]
-
Enables:

flexible decentralized business models
local spectrum licensing
spectrum sharing
infrastructure sharing
intelligent automated management


[[Edge Computing]]
[[Mobile Edge Computing]]
[[Blockchain]]
[[Short-Packet Communication]]

[[gallium nitride high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT)]]


[[Wireless Cognition]]

---

Wikipedia:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/6G_(network)
Wikidata:https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q59324875


Amplifier progress

> Recent studies have developed first ideas for 6G. A group based at the University of California, Santa Barbara has claimed significant progress by building a device that can speed up the process of development and save substantial amounts of time during the design phase. They reported key aspects of the device, including an "n-polar" gallium nitride high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT), in two papers which were published in IEEE Electron Device Letters.[15][16] The presence of this charge in the transistor gives the device the ability to operate at high frequencies, because the electrons are free to move quickly through it without obstruction. Although the data has not been published yet, the researchers claim it shows promising results, and, according to their plan, they will eventually test the new devices at even higher frequencies than before (140 GHz and 230 GHz, with both firmly in the terahertz range).[17]

> In 2020, scientists from the Nanyang Technological University of Singapore and Osaka University of Japan announced they had created a chip for terahertz (THz) waves, which might be used in 6G.[3]

> In 2021, engineers at Millimeter Wave Products in the USA have created and improved amplifiers for the G bands operating in the terahertz (THz) waves, which will be used in 6G products and services.[18]

> In October 2020, the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) launched a "Next G Alliance", an alliance consisting of AT&T, Ericsson, Telus, Verizon, T-Mobile, Microsoft, Samsung, and others that "will advance North American mobile technology leadership in 6G and beyond over the next decade."[19]

> On November 6, 2020, China successfully launched an experimental test satellite with candidates for 6G technology into orbit, along with 12 other satellites, using a Long March 6 launch vehicle rocket. The satellite is intended to "verify the terahertz (THz) communication technology in space", according to the Global Times newspaper.[20][21]

# Expectations
> Recent academic articles have been conceptualizing 6G and new features that may be included. AI is included in many of these predictions, from 6G supporting AI infrastructure to "AI designing and optimizing 6G architectures, protocols, and operations."[22] Another study in Nature Electronics looks to provide a framework for 6G research stating "We suggest that human-centric mobile communications will still be the most important application of 6G and the 6G network should be human centric. Thus, high security, secrecy and privacy should be key features of 6G and should be given particular attention by the wireless research community."[23] The question of what frequencies 6G will operate on are still up to interpretation. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers states that "Frequencies from 100 GHz to 3 THz are promising bands for the next generation of wireless communication systems because of the wide swaths of unused and unexplored spectrum."[24] One of the biggest challenges in supporting the required high transmission speeds will be the limitation of energy/power consumption and associated heat development in the electronic circuits to acceptable proportions.[25] 


---

Source:https://www.digitaltrends.com/mobile/what-is-6g/

When is 6G coming?

“It’s a little too early to talk about 6G.”

Not our words, but the words of Ericsson’s chief technology officer (CTO) Erik Ekudden during MWVC 2019 Shanghai in July 2019. Then, in December 2020, Verizon CTO Kyle Malady followed by saying, “I really don’t know what the hell 6G is.” We’ll say it again: It’s all about 5G at the moment.

But if the research is only just starting, when will 6G launch? Ekudden estimates that it would be about a decade before 6G comes along, a prediction which fits in with both Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei, who told CNBC in September 2019 that 6G was at least ten years away. A 2021 report by ABI Research predicted that early commercial deployment will occur in 2028 and 2029, with more widespread rollouts coming in the following years.
How fast will 6G be?

We don’t know how fast 6G will be yet, but estimates have it around 100 times faster than 5G. The final standards that will define what a 6G connection is will probably be down to the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). The ITU recently nailed down the standards for 5G (which it refers to as IMT-2020) after more than eight years of work, and is expected to start a similar process for 6G soon.

That hasn’t stopped experts guessing how fast 6G will be. One of the most often quoted is from Dr. Mahyar Shirvanimoghaddam from the University of Sydney, who claims 6G could deliver mind-boggling speeds of 1TB per second, or 8,000 gigabits per second. Forget one movie downloading in a few seconds from Netflix with 5G, with 6G speeds like that, in just one second you could download 142 hours of Netflix movies.

As for the ITU, it hasn’t published much on 6G yet. In May 2019 it talked about IMT-2030, which it describes as a hybrid network and an upgrade to 5G — rather than a new network entirely, which we expect 6G to be.
What will 6G mean to you?

It’ll be like 5G, but more so. Even higher speeds, even lower latency, and masses of bandwidth. Researchers and scientists are talking about 6G going beyond a “wired” network, with devices acting as antennas using a decentralized network not under the control of a single network operator. If everything connects using 5G, 6G will set these connected devices free, as higher data speeds and lower latency make instant device-to-device connection possible.

While the technology we expect to emerge from 5G — from autonomous cars and drones to smart cities — will be enhanced further with 6G, it may also bring about sci-fi applications like the integration of our brains with computers, and greatly improved touch control systems. NTT DoCoMo talks about 6G making it, “possible for cyberspace to support human thought and action in real time through wearable devices and micro-devices mounted on the human body.” Others have called it “Teleportation of the senses” for similar reasons.

The report points toward the realm of science fiction becoming science fact, saying speeds in excess of 100Gbps could make possible sensory interfaces that feel and look just like real life, potentially through smart glasses or contact lenses. It goes on to talk about prioritizing low power consumption for over-the-air charging, and coverage that could be extended across the sea and even out into space.
Who is working on 6G?
Intel

Throughout 2020 and early 2021, research initiatives into 6G became more popular as governments around the world started researching possibilities, eager to embrace new technology ahead of rivals. This can be broken down into several key investments recently made.

    According to China’s official news agency, the nation has already put a 6G experimental satellite into orbit. The satellite is reported as being one of 13 new satellites deployed by China on the Long March-6 rocket launch in November 2020. The China Global Television Network also reported that the satellite weighed 70 kilograms and was made to help perform data transmission tests at long distances along the terahertz spectrum. The satellite could potentially be used to monitor crops, forest fires, and other environmental data. More recently, CNIPA (China National Intellectual Property Administration) announced that it has 35% of the around 38,000 patents related to 6
    In Europe, the 6G Flagship project is working to combine research on 6G technologies, currently centered in the University of Oolu of Finland.
    Japan is devoting $482 million to help 6G become widespread in the next few years. This funding will also build a facility where researchers can develop wireless projects. The country’s overall goal is to highlight the standout mobile technologies by 2025.
    In Germany, Vodafone Germany announced in 2021 that it was establishing a 6G research facility in Dresden.
    In South Korea, it’s no surprise that Samsung is working on 6G, and sees the technology as particularly promising for advanced technology like holograms. They are another organization that is predicating the first rollout of 6G may happen as early as 2028.
    In Russia, the R&D institute NIIR and the Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology released a 2021 forecast predicting that 6G networks could become available as soon as 2035.
    As for the U.S., the 6G effort is more private than government-fueled, although the federal government did announce a partnership with South Korea over 6G research in 2021. Some mobile companies in America are progressing with their own 6G development. Notably, AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile are leading an industry initiative with ATIS  called the Next G Alliance to help organize and further 6G research throughout North America. In May of 2021, the Next G Alliance began a technical work program to coordinate a series of new workgroups with the specific goal of developing 6G technology. If the patent numbers are correct, the United States comes in second behind China with around 18% of all 6G patents at this time.

---

Source:https://edition.cnn.com/2020/02/10/perspectives/6g-future-communications/index.html

The wireless industry has revolutionized the way we work and play, so it's no wonder why 5G has grabbed everyone's attention. Already in some cities, and soon across the world, fiberoptic transmission speeds will invisibly reach into all of our pockets, bringing television, 3D imagery and new applications we never dreamed of to our mobile devices.
While commercial cellphone providers and equipment vendors are working feverishly to build out 5G, and as the public eagerly awaits its rollout, researchers around the world are at work producing the wireless world's next generation: 6G.

What is 6G? No one quite knows yet, and the international standards bodies, made up of hundreds of companies around the world, will figure that out over the coming decade. But work at New York University shows that by 2035, 6G will usher in the ability to send wireless signals at the rate of human computation.

Dubbed "wireless cognition" by researchers, 6G could mean that human intelligence could eventually be sent over the air instantaneously. Remote control robots and artificial intelligence applications with human-like capabilities could be enabled over 6G cellphones.
By using electromagnetic frequencies above 95 Gigahertz, future cellphones will be able to use massive channel bandwidths and highly directional antennas that allow excellent coverage and enable new applications. These frequencies, which are 40 times greater than today's 4G cellphone frequencies, and three to four times greater than the new 5G frequencies, were just made available for commercialization by the Federal Communications Commission last year.
Accurate positioning and direction finding coupled with superior sensing and imaging, just like humans use their eyes to see things clearly both near and far, will become possible with 6G.
The new frequencies in the sub-Terahertz bands will transmit super-fast computations over a wide range of frequencies, allowing future cellphones to have vastly greater capabilities.
For example, the 6G phone of the future will be able to test the air around you for allergens, explosives or toxic chemicals and determine if your food is safe to eat. It will help you see in the dark using night vision and render far better images than the human eye can see. Just as the cellphone has replaced the standalone camera and the wristwatch for many, and is beginning to replace the wallet, 6G phones may someday replace eyeglasses through the use of goggles, which can double as headphones, that have incredible imaging capability and stereophonic sound.
Research also shows that 6G phones will be able to see behind walls by building up maps of the local surroundings and combining the signals received from the environment with the highly directional, steerable antennas on the phone. This could come in handy if you want to know if someone is in the room next to you.
If that's not enough, the 6G phone of the future will also provide precise position location accuracy and ranging that will let us know exactly where we are, down to the centimeter. Such accuracy will be important for navigating robotic vehicles and self-driving cars and could even be useful for hanging drapes in your home. Along with these features will be the usual high definition video and augmented reality applications we cannot yet even imagine.
More Tech & Innovation Perspectives

Facebook's Libra cryptocurrency is a tool for empowerment. Not a threat

I'm developing AI that can read emotions. It's not as creepy as you think.

Big Tech can't be trusted. It's time for regulation

While many of these ideas are still in the research labs of universities and a few forward-looking companies, there is great promise that these ideas will be ready for prime time in the 6G era (expected around 2030).

The countries that lead in the creation of these new technological capabilities will have a keen international market edge, which is why fundamental research is a critical national policy issue. Countries like China, Japan and Korea have made Information and Communications Technology (ICT) research a national priority, and their fortunes are rising with 5G. Given the importance of 5G, and the fact that the United States is losing its edge in the global standards race, I believe it is now urgent for US leadership to make wireless communications research support, and ICT in general, a national priority.
Only those countries that invest in fundamental wireless research in academia and industry have a shot at creating and owning the intellectual property and nurturing the engineering talent that will enable 6G. A major, multibillion dollar federal research initiative that brings US universities and industry together to create fundamental research and startup companies is needed to attract the top research talent to work on this lucrative future, while incentivizing young people to pursue education and careers that will create the exciting breakthroughs. National fortunes, as well as vast new capabilities, will be riding over the 6G airwaves.