[[Radar]]

Conventional radars have a fixed or rotating dish, but the quantum radar design more closely resembles a gun, and accelerates electrons to nearly the speed of light. Once they pass through a winding tube exposed to strong magnetic fields, the electrons could [generate a vortex](https://interestingengineering.com/researchers-demonstrate-the-worlds-first-quantum-radar) of microwaves that swirl forward like a horizontal tornado, according to the report. If successfully completed, the novel quantum radar system would outclass any radar system of the past, but that's still a big "if", according to Tsinghua University's Zhang Chao and his team, in the aerospace engineering school. But the potential benefits are worth the hard work, according to the team of scientists. The "better the stealth technology, the higher the gain" of the quantum radar system, they added, in the _SCMP_ report.


https://interestingengineering.com/china-reportedly-developing-quantum-radar-to-detect-stealth-jets


However, recent years have seen military radar increase in sensitivity, possibly high enough to detect even stealth aircraft. But, in turn, novel [metamaterials have further enhanced stealth capabilities](https://interestingengineering.com/invisibility-cloaks-are-no-longer-just-science-fiction), reducing aircraft visibility even more. And, if stealth technology continues to improve, some believe it will advance beyond the detection capabilities of any radar. This is why weapons engineers proposed quantum radar as a potential solution to the detection dilemma, more than a decade ago. Military scientists in China said they were already testing a quantum radar prototype in 2016, but this has been hotly contested by legitimate scientific authorities. A report [published in _Science Magazine_](https://www.science.org/news/2020/09/short-weird-life-and-potential-afterlife-quantum-radar) last year argued that quantum radar may never be deployed for long-range uses like tracking stealth airplanes, since experiments have seen critical flaws — one of which suggested such devices only work near absolute zero — which obviously far below the temperature of China's skies. "I am convinced that when [China] announced their quantum radar it was not working," said Fabrice Boust, a radar specialist and physicist from France's aerospace agency, ONERA, in the 2020 _Science Magazine_ report. "But they knew they would get a reaction." Well, if this is [what China wants](https://interestingengineering.com/us-officials-warn-that-china-is-developing-advanced-anti-satellite-technology), it's working.