[[Cloud]]

Source: Gartner Hype Cycle 2021

# Definition of a sovereign cloud
https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-au/about-us/sovereign-cloud/

> Digital transformation is accelerating every day. It is driven by new needs brought about by the COVID-19 crisis, across Europe and globally. Our use of IT tools and the internet is reflected in every aspect of society. Today, these uses need to be organised — particularly when managing the infrastructures and platforms on which they are based. When a cloud provider offers sovereign solutions, it ensures that its infrastructure and processing operations are carried out in strict compliance with the rules in effect. This is to protect freedom of choice for its users, as well as data confidentiality and sovereignty. These rules are enforced in whichever countries the provider operates and offers its services in. In other words, the provider complies with regulations, and ensures that data is protected from any interventions other than what the customer carries out. Being a trusted cloud player involves ensuring that no extraterritorial rights apply to data, and that the data is not used by third parties — whether it is to power AI algorithms, or contribute to the enrichment of monolithic platforms.

## Why is the concept of a trusted cloud important?
> Companies, organisations and governments alike should provide users with a trusted service. By relying on a trusted cloud, you can ensure compliance with local and international laws when processing individual data. Whether the data is stored for or generated by the users, it should never be subject to external interference. To achieve this in the digital world, providers need to control the scope of use, and master the most widely-used IT technologies. Preserving freedom of choice, strengthening the control of digital tools and protecting reversibility within states are becoming crucial challenges.

> By fully exercising sovereignty, we can guarantee the ability to act in an increasingly complex digital world. It is all the more important for some organisations. This is the case for Operators of Vital Importance (OVI) and Operators of Essential Services (OES), for whom transparency and security are paramount in data processing. It is also a growing expectation for users. Public institutions — as well as healthcare or banking establishments — must play a vital part in protecting the data entrusted to them. Specific cloud certifications, such as HDS (healthcare data hosting) and PCI DSS (payment card data processing) are also required.
