#Method 

Computing approach that allows machines to make sense of the real environment, translating concrete spatial data into the digital realm in real-time. By using [[Machine Learning]] -powered sensors, [[Digital Camera System]], [[Machine Vision]], [[Global Positioning System (GPS)]], and other elements, it is possible to digitize objects and spaces that connect via the [[Cloud]], allowing [[Sensor]] and [[Electric Motor]] to react to one another, accurately representing the real world digitally. These capabilities are then combined with high-fidelity [[Spatial Mapping]] allowing a computer “coordinator” to control and track objects' movements and interactions as humans navigate through the digital or physical world. Spatial computing currently allows for seamless [[technology/Augmented Reality (AR)]], [[Mixed Reality (MR)]] and [[Virtual Reality (VR)]] experiences and is being used in medicine, mobility, logistics, mining, architecture, design, training, and so forth.

Source: WEF

> Spatial computing is the next step in the bringing together of physical and digital worlds we’re already seeing with virtual-reality and augmented-reality apps. As with VR and AR, it digitizes objects that connect via the cloud, allows sensors and motors to react to one another and creates a digital representation of the real world. But it goes even further, adding spatial mapping that lets a computer “coordinator” track and control the movements and interactions of objects as a person moves through the digital or physical world. This technology will bring new developments in how people and machines interact, in industry, healthcare, transportation and the home.
