


[[Instant Payment]]








---
Features

The system was created with the aim of reducing cash transactions and offering an alternative to existing payment methods, such as boleto and ATM, but faster and cheaper.[3][4] The main features of the system are the total availability (24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year), the speed of transactions, that are almost instantaneous, and the possibilities of payment through technologies such as the QR code.[5]

The Pix allows to carry out financial transactions instantly and without the need for intermediaries. The system has two different ways of functioning: payment between individuals and between individuals and companies. In both, the one who pays will use the Pix key of the one who receives it to make the transfer (which in the case of individuals can be a [[QR code]], a payment [[link]], the Pix key code or some personal data such as CPF, phone number or receiver's email, in the case of companies it can be a QR code or the Pix key code of the establishment).[5][6]
Pix key

The pix keys are used to link user information to bank transfer. There are four types of keys: CPF ([[Natural Persons Register]]) or CNPJ (National Registry of Legal Entities), [[e-mail address]], [[telephone number]] or a [[random key]] generated by the system. The same key cannot be used in different accounts, it must be necessary to register different keys for each account that the person holds, such as, for example, the CPF at an institution A, e-mail at an institution B or telephone number at institution C, it is not possible to use the CPF, same phone number or e-mail in more than one institution.[7] Individuals can create up to five keys for each account they own, while companies can create up to twenty keys.[5] 


---

Banking / Backend technologies?



---


1. What are instant payments?

Instant Payments are electronic money transfers between different institutions where the payment message transmission and fund availability to the final beneficiary occur in real-time, and whose service is available to end-users 24/7.

The Central Bank in Brazil saw the need to create and regulate this new payment arrangement because of the digitalization of e-commerce and the current gap in payment methods.


Mobile Payments Today: Uber and EBANX partner for PIX payments in Brazil


2. What is PIX?

PIX The Instant Payments in BrazilPIX is the system created by the Brazilian Central Bank to bring instant payments to life. It is through PIX that all wallets that use QR Codes will be interoperable, meaning transfers and payments will be allowed from one e-wallet to another in real-time, 24/7.



3. What are the main differences between digital wallets and instant payments (PIX)?

Instant payments represent a new arrangement within the Brazilian financial system that will allow 24/7 transactions in real-time between different institutions without the need for intermediaries such as card schemes, acquirers, or issuers. Digital wallets are simply companies that today are simply storing credit card information for users and letting them top up the balance of a transactional account to make the checkout process easier.

Another major difference is the fact that instant payments will allow the interoperability of all digital wallets, meaning that an account holder of e-wallet A will be able to transfer funds to account holder of e-wallet B without any hassle and in real-time.

Both use the same technology in most cases (QR Code and NFC), but instant payments are the next step of digital wallets.
4. Which are the main benefits of instant payments?

Instant payments offer many benefits to the current Brazilian market. They will cost less since there's no need for acquirers, card schemes or issuers to participate in the arrangement, the transaction happens in real-time which is a step-up from the main alternative payment method (Boleto Bancário), it will allow for the interoperability of all wallets and players that use QR Code as a payment method, and it doesn't require the end-user to have a bank account.
